Hello and welcome to the course on R
programming. I'm super excited that you
decided to join and I can promise you
right now that in this course you will
learn a lot and we will have tons of fun
along the way and I have designed this
course specifically to address a pain
point that I personally had when I was
studying R programming and that is the
fact that this language has a very steep
learning curve and the courses out there
just throw you in the deep end right
away and it's very hard to actually sit
down and get this language going and
understand it very well so that you can
apply it in your work.
So this course is structured differently,
this course will take you step-by-step
through everything in R and like all
my other courses you will learn
gradually with lots of examples, with
applying your knowledge to real-world
problem and you will learn the spiral
structure so everything you learn you
won't just move away from that. In
the coming tutorials after that, we will
concrete that knowledge in because we'll
practice and reiterate it and we will
build on existing knowledge. So that way,
everything you'll learn, you will get to
keep and take away after this course and
what I want to do in this tutorial is I
just want to quickly show you around the
section of the course so you can
navigate your way better and then we'll
dive straight into installing R and
let's jump to the presentation of the
sections of the course now. Alright, so
here's the course and now if I scroll a little bit
down to the sections we will see section
one here. So section one hit the ground
running, here we've got the lecture one
which is the lecture we're in right now
and then we're going to install R in
our studio, and I'll show you how to do
that both on mac and pc and finally
we've got an exercise. A super quick
exercise to get you excited about this
course, to show you all of the powerful
things you will learn towards the end of the
course.
Yes, you will be able to really perform
there. I highly recommend doing this
exercise. You will see how much power R
has and then throughout the course
you'll actually learn in detail exactly
what you did in lecture 3. So pretty
interesting lecture over there
and then we've got section two, core
programming principles and here this
section is designed to introduce you to
programming if you've never programmed
before. So feel free to skip it, if you
have programmed before or maybe just
proceed straight to the homework for
this section because it's quite
interesting. It's got some statistical
knowledge combined with programming, if
you haven't ever program before then no
worries,
this section will get you up to speed
with everything you need to know to
master the rest of the course and learn
R. Then we're moving on to fundamentals
of R, so R is a very specific type of
programming language. It is all
vectorized and here that's what we're
going to talk about. We're going to talk
about vectorized operations and how to
access elements of vectors and functions
packages and so on and basically that's
what the sections about. It's about the
specifics of this programming language.
Alright, then we're moving onto
matrices, so matrices are multi
dimensional objects that might be
something, a complicated topic but it's
actually a very simple and more over
here we've got a very interesting data
set we talk about basketball trends so
we're going to be looking at the top
page players of the NBA and we're going
to have a matrix, we are going to learn how
to work with it at the same time we're
already going to be deriving very
valuable insights and we're going to
have a lot of fun in this section. I
can't wait for you to check it out
actually, then a section 5 data frames
and what are we talking about here?
Well data frames are kind of a step up
from matrices and this is the main
section for data science. So every time
you're going to be working with data
it's like ninety-nine percent of times
going to data from, so it's very
important sections to know all this all
these things and skills that we're
talking about
and again we're going to have a very
interesting topic. We're going to be
talking about demographic analysis. We're
going to be working from with some data
from the world bank, so that's going to
be fun and then we've got advanced
visualization. So here you will learn how
to visualize your data sets and how to
portray those inside that you want to
convey to your audience in a very
graphical manner so that it's easier to
understand them and there's a very
interesting concept about visualization in
R. It's very layered type of
visualization, so we'll be working
with the GGPlot2 package and you'll
learn all about it and also I'll shoot
myriads of different visualizations that
you can use and we will walk through
them and again we're going to have a
very interesting data sets, we're going
to be talking about movie ratings and
we're going to see how the audience
rates movies, how critics make great
movies, drive some insights that in fact
when I was preparing this section, I
found some things that I didn't know
personally. I was like wow! That is so cool so
you're going to have a lot of fun in
this section. In fact, in any section of the
course you're going to have a lot of fun
and finally we've got the homework solutions,
so in the section of the course,
you'll find homework exercises so you
can come here and then check the
solutions of of the homework exercises
when you're done.
So there we go, that's how the course is
structured don't forget that there are
quizzes at the end of every section so
look into those. Those will also help you keep
on track and refresh knowledge that
you just learned and I can't wait to see
on the next tutorial.
Until next time, happy coding.